Silicon Valley is obsessed with
disruption but these days the biggest
disrupter didn't come out of Silicon
Valley it came out of Steel towns in
Ohio world communities in Pennsylvania
the Panhandle in Florida in this last US
presidential election was the mother of
all destructions once again politics is
personal millions of Americans became
activists overnight pouring into the
streets in record numbers in record time
the election has done to family holiday
dinners what ubers done to New York City
taxi system couples have broken up and
marriages disrupted at the elections
doing through my private life what
Amazon's doing - shopping malls these
days the ACLU is on the frontlines 24/7
and even if I managed to sneak away for
a couple of miles on the treadmill any
cardio benefit I get is instantly
obliterated when I read another
presidential tweet on the headline
stroke even my secret pleasure of
studying the Italian painters has been
infected by politics now I study even
stalk the old masters this is my desk
with a postcard exhibition of some
famous and obscure paintings mostly from
the Italian Renaissance now art used to
provide me with a necessary break from
the hurly-burly of politics
in my daily work at the ACLU but not
anymore now with other women's march in
San Francisco the day after inauguration
and the crowd was chanting this is what
democracy looks like this is what
democracy looks like and there I was
holding my sign and my umbrella in the
rain and I flashed on an old painting
that first captivated me many years ago
I struggled to remember the different
pieces
of an actual painting of good and bad
government it was almost like the old
master was taunting me you want to know
what democracy looks like go back and
look at my frescoes and so I did in
13:39 Ambrogio Lorenzetti finished a
monumental commission in the Governing
Council chamber of Siena's Palazzo
publico it's a painting that speaks to
us even screams to us today art is a lie
that makes us realize truth Pablo
Picasso once said and as we search for
the truth about government we should
keep Ambrosio's work not a lie but an
allegory in our collective mind's eye
during Lorenzetti is time the political
legitimacy of Italian city-states was
often on very shaky ground Siena was a
republic but there had been enormous
unrest in the two decades leading up to
the commission Siena's political leaders
who would literally govern under the
eyes of these allegorical figures were
Lorenzetti
intended audience he was cataloguing the
obligations of the governing to the
governed now you can spend years
studying these frescoes some scholars
have I'm hardly an art historian but I
am passionate about art and a work this
massive can overwhelm me so first I
focus on the big stuff this is the
allegory of good government the majestic
figure here in the middle is dressed in
Siena's colors and he personifies the
Republic itself Lorenzetti labels him
commune and he's basically telling the
Sienese that they and not a king or a
tyrant must rule themselves now
surrounding commune or his advisors
justice is enthroned she's looking up at
the figure of wisdom who actually
supports her scales of justice Concord
or harmony holds a string that comes off
the scales of justice that binds her to
the citizens making them all compatriots
in the Republic and finally we see peace
she lives chilled out like she's
listening to Bob Marley when good
government rules peace doesn't break a
sweat now these are big images and big
ideas but I really love the small stuff
along another wall Lorenzetti
illustrates the effects of good
government on the real and everyday
lives of ordinary people with a series
of delicious little details in the
countryside the hills are landscaped and
farms crops are being sown holed reefs
milled plowed all in one picture crops
and livestock are being brought to
markets in the city builders raise a
tower people attend a law lecture a TED
talk of the 14th century schoolchildren
play tradesmen thrive dancers
larger-than-life dance with joy and
watching over the Republic is the wing
figure security whose banner reads
everyone shall go forth freely without
fear now what's amazing about these
images made hundred years old is that
they're familiar to us today we see what
democracy looks like we experience the
effects of good government in our lives
just as Lorenzetti did in his life but
it is the allegory of bad government
that has been haunting me since November
nights it's badly damaged but it reads
like today's newspapers and ruling over
bad government is
not the commune or the tyrant he has
horns
Tufts cross eyes braided hair
he obviously spends a lot of time on the
hair justice now lies helpless at his
feet shackled her scales have been
severed justice is the key antagonist to
the tyrant and she's been taken out now
surrounding the tyrant Lorenzetti
illustrates the vices that animate that
government avarice is the old woman
clutching the strongbox and a
fisherman's hook to pull in her fortune
Bane glory carries a mirror and
Lorenzetti warns us against narcissistic
leaders who are guided by their own ego
and vanity on the tyrants right is
cruelty treason half lamb half scorpion
loves us into a false sense of security
and then poisons the Republic fraud with
the flighty wings of a bat on the
tyrants left you see division she's
dressed in Sienna's colors see and no
are painted on her body she uses a
carpenters saw to chop her body in half
the fury wields the weapons of the mob
the stone and knife
the remainder of the fresco Lorenzetti
shows us the inevitable effects of bad
government the civic ideals celebrated
elsewhere in this room have failed us
and we see it the once beautiful cities
fall into pieces the countryside barren
the farms abandoned many are in flames
and then the sky above is not the winged
figures security but that of fear whose
banner reads none shall pass along this
road without fear of death now the final
image the most important one really is
one the lorentz that he did not paint it
is of the viewer today the audience for
Lawrence Edie's frescoes is not the
governing but the governed the
individual who stands in front of his
allegories and walks away with insight
who heeds a call-to-action Lorenzetti
warns us that we must recognize the
shadows of avarice fraud division even
tyranny when they float across our
political landscape especially when
those shadows are tapped by political
leaders loudly claiming to be the voice
of good government and promising to make
America great again and we must act
democracy must not be a spectator sports
the right to protest the right to
assemble freely the right to petition
one's government these are not just
rights in the face of avarice fraud and
division these are obligations we have
to disrupt
we have to disrupt our lives so that we
can disrupt the amoral
accretion of power by those who would
betray our values we and we the people
must raise justice up and must bring
peace to our nation and must come
together in Concord and we have a choice
we can either paint ourselves into the
worst nightmare of Lorne's that is bad
government or we can stay in the streets
disruptive messy loud that is what
democracy looks like
[Music]
that's done if they become that's all
Wow obviously many people passionately
you spoke to many people passionate here
I'm sure there are other people here
could say look Trump is elected by 63
million people you were often perfect
but he's trying to do what he was
elected to do shouldn't you give him a
chance I think we have to recognize the
legitimacy of him as president versus
the legitimacy of his policies and when
so many of the policies are contrary to
fundamental values you know there were
all equal under the law that we're not
judged by the color of our skin or the
religion we worship that we have to
contest those values even as we
recognize and honor the fact that our
democracy rendered as a president who is
champion those values and the ACLU isn't
just this the source on the left right
you're making other arguments as well
well we are we very often we piss
everyone off at one point that's what we
do um and we recently were taking stands
for why Ann Coulter needs to be able to
speak at Berkeley and why Milo's has
free speech right and we even wrote a
blog that almost burnt the house down
among some of our members unfortunately
when we talked about the fact that even
Donald Trump has free speech rights as
president and an effort to hold him
accountable for incitement of violence
at his marches or his rallies is
unconstitutional and unamerican and when
you put that statement out there to a
very frothy base that always is very
excited for you to fight Donald Trump
and then you have a new on saying wait a
minute these rights are for everybody
even the president that we don't like
and that's our job
um ugly you've got so many of us so
powerfully thank you so much thank you
[Applause]